Let's start adding some of our conference registration
functionality to our application.
We've gone through and looked at controllers, looked at all the pieces.
Let's just start adding some functionality to our app.
I have closed all the open files that I had and shut down my server.
I would advise you to do the same thing so that we're in the same space
and same state if you don't have any problems with that.
I'm going to start by first opening up our webapp folder,
and we created this index.html file underneath webapp.
We don't need that anymore because we have our application configured correctly
and hosting up Spring MVC files so it will utilize that src,
main, resources one that we kept a copy of.
I'm going to go ahead and delete this and click OK.
And then what I want to do is I'm going to open up our jsp folder,
and I'm going to right‑click and create a new JSP file.
And I'm going to call this registration.jsp.
And it will create the standard template that we've already been using.
I'm going to change the title to say Registration.
And for now,
I'm going to do the same thing we did before and add in an h1 just to
make it so we don't have a blank page when we land here.
And I'll just say Registration here as well.
Now I want to go to that static HTML page we have for our index underneath src,
main, resources, index.html.
I'm going to open that page up.
I told you when I set up our environment that I like it to go
ahead and keep pulling that index page up.
And there's a little trick as you're getting started with Spring
development and IntelliJ and all these tools that I like to do.
I like to leave this basic index.html page or a development page in here.
You can keep one of these in your application,
and it doesn't need to be named index.html.
You can point your run configuration to a different page.
But I want to go in here, and I'm going to add href.
And I want to point this to greeting, and I want to close that off,
and I'm just going to say Greeting here.
Make sure you don't take the default of the /greeting because that
will take you to the root of the application,
and it won't function correctly.
So I'm going to save that.
I'm going to add another one here and do the same thing.
I'm going to say a href.
I'm going to do registration,
and I want to close that element off and save that as well.
Now I've got these two anchor tags in here,
and what happens is that it launches our application.
I'm just going to be able to click on these links really easily to
navigate to different pieces of our application.
Let's launch our app now and see what it does.
I'm going to go down to our Run console and click the
start for the run configuration,
or you can do it from up above in our Tomcat configuration.
And when this gets done building,
it's going to pull up our web page and navigate us to our index page.
Now you'll see we have a Greeting and a Registration link here.
When I click on the Greeting link, it'll navigate me to the greeting page.
It's exactly what we expected it to do.
If I back up and go to the Registration, it's going to get an error.
We don't have that mapping set up.
It's because we haven't created a controller to point to that.
Let's do that now.
Switching back over to our IDE, let's go ahead and open up our src,
main, java controller package.
And I want to right‑click on that and say New, Java Class.
I'm going to call this RegistrationController and hit Enter on that.
And we're going to go through the exact same operations we did before.
We're going to annotate this as a Controller.
We want to add an annotation for @GetMapping.
We want to tie this mapping to registration.
And then we want to add a method in here of public String getRegistration.
And I specifically named it that because we're doing
a Get on the registration URL.
Honestly, it's just my naming convention.
There's nothing significant to it, nothing Spring related.
It's just my own personal preference.
And we're going to pass in the Map<String,
Object for our model to pass attributes back and forth.
And inside of here, we can now just return the string registration,
and that is going to do an internal lookup to our registration.jsp page.
Let's go ahead and restart our server, let that pull up again,
and check to make sure that all of those pieces are
wired up how we think they should be.
Our app will now display the registration page when we've linked
to it by clicking on that registration page,
and that's what we expect to see.
It's now serving up our page through our controller.
But hold on.
How is it doing all of this?
That's great that we've added a controller in here and we've added some
JSP pages and they've somehow wired themselves together.
What's really going on inside of here?
If we open up our GreetingController that we created
and our RegistrationController, they look the same.
There's nothing telling it where to route here or what we're doing,
any of that type of stuff.
And there's nothing inside of this JSP page that's
telling us anything significant.
Well,
it all starts with our ConferenceApplication that is
annotated as a @SpringBootApplication,
and it extends SpringBootServletInitializer.
This tells the application server to go ahead and create a
dispatcher servlet and start serving up things.
And as part of that annotation of @SpringBootApplication,
it goes and starts looking for our controller and things with our
annotation such as @Controller and @GetMapping,
and our GreetingController that has the same thing,
@Controller and @GetMapping.
It starts navigating through all of that stuff.
So this underneath the scenes here is creating a dispatcher servlet.
If you've gone through this course before or you're
looking at older JSPs that have been written or maintained
through a Spring MVC application,
it's always centered around a dispatcher servlet.
If we look at our run configuration and you go scroll through this,
you'll see inside of here it is calling our dispatcher servlet.
It tells us that it's initializing that dispatcher servlet.
Well, we didn't create that.
Spring did for us by extending that SpringBootServletInitializer.
It got rid of a lot of the boilerplate code that we have done
in the past by just configuring that for us.
Now if we open up our project, how do we interact with that though?
It's our application.properties.
This is where we did our InternalResourceViewResolver.
We told it to go look under this directory and look for .jsp pages.
So when we return that string from any of our controllers,
our RegistrationController, for example,
it is handling every web request through our dispatcher servlet.
That's why the GetMapping for registration ties to it the way that it does.
And when we tell it to return that registration page,
it goes and looks for that registration.jsp page. Let's dissect this a little bit further in the next few examples.